



GENDISPATCH Working Group                                      G. Huston
Internet-Draft                                                     APNIC
Updates: 8713 (if approved)                                      R. Salz
Intended status: Best Current Practice               Akamai Technologies
Expires: 28 March 2024                                 25 September 2023


                  Two-year terms for NomCom volunteers
                  draft-rsalz-gih-nomcom-2years-latest

Abstract

   Each year the NomCom process is actually two processes -- finding out
   anew how to be a NomCom and conduct its business and then secondly
   undertaking the work of the NomCom in selecting individuals to
   undertake the various roles for which the NomCom has responsibility.
   This applies to both the chair and to the voting volunteer members of
   the NomCom.

   The inclusion of the past chair into the NomCom as a non-voting
   member mitigates this to some extent, but the past chair is
   constrained as to the level of advice that can be offerred.  They are
   also do not vote on the actual selections, and are therefore unable
   to make any concerete changes from year to year.

   The NomCom could benefit from greater levels of continuity from year-
   to-year to assist the NomCom to get over the bootstrap period eaach
   year to get started.

   This document changes the term of office for NomCom voting volunteers
   from one to two years.  It also changes the term of office for the
   NomCom Chair from two to three.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/richsalz/nomcom-changes.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 28 March 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Changes
   4.  Implementation
   5.  Diversity Considerations
   6.  Security Considerations
   7.  IANA Considerations
   8.  LLC Considerations
   9.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   Each year the IETF Nomincations Committee ("NomCom") process
   [RFC8713] is actually two processes -- finding out anew how to be a
   NomCom and conduct its business and then secondly performing the work
   of the NomCom in selecting individuals to undertake the various roles
   for which the NomCom has responsibility.  This applies to both the
   Chair and to the voting volunteer members of the NomCom.

   The inclusion of the past Chair into the NomCom as a non-voting
   member mitigates this to some extent, but the past Chair is
   constrained as to the level of advice that can be offerred.  They are
   also do not vote on the actual selections, and are therefore unable
   to make any concerete changes from year to year.

   The NomCom could benefit from greater levels of continuity from year-
   to-year to assist the NomCom to get over the bootstrap period eaach
   year to get started.

   This document changes the term of office for NomCom voting volunteers
   from one to two years.  It also changes the term of office for the
   NomCom Chair from two to three.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   [RFC8713] documents how the IETF Nominations Committee operates.
   That document refers to the meetings by ordinals; for ease of
   understanding, this document uses March, July, and November instead
   of First, Second, Third, respectively.

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Changes

   The voting volunteers serve for two years.  The selection are to be
   staggered (see below) so that after the bootstrap five new members
   are chosen each year.

   The NomCom chair serves for three years, each year is known as
   Incoming Chair, Chair, and Past Chair.  The voting rules for Chair
   and Past Chair do not change.  The Incoming Chair does not vote and
   does not count for quorum.

      *ISSUE* Is that last sentence what we want?

4.  Implementation

   If approved, the first time a new NomCom Chair is picked, the ISOC
   President picks two people.  One is designated the Chair, and one if
   the Incoming Chair.  The order and method of selection is left to the
   discretion of the ISOC President.  This document recommends that the
   Incoming Chair be announced before the current chair has made any
   public announcements.

   The voting volunteers for the first year need to be selected in two
   separate groups - five are picked for a one-year term, and five are
   picked for a two-year term.  In order to prevent the Chair from
   having undue influence, [RFC3797] or its successor should be used.
   The seed material for both groups can be the same, with an additional
   seed provided that distinguishes them.  For example, an additional
   lottery equivalent with "1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6" as the numbers for the
   first group and "7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12" as the numbers for the second
   group could be used.

   A single list of eligible volunteers is used for both volunteer
   groups.  If someone is unwilling, unreachable, or otherwise unable to
   serve, the next person for that group should be chosen.

5.  Diversity Considerations

   This comes from John Kleinsin (abridged) and I think makes some valid
   points.

   I hope that proposal draft explicitly addresses the problem that,
   perhaps because of the increased workload, the NomCom is already
   less diverse and less representative of the community than one
   might reasonably wish for.  I see it as a tradeoff, rather than
   fatal but, unless there are other remedies, the longer commitment
   of more time seems likely to further reduce diversity, perhaps to
   the point that the typical NomCom member becomes someone with
   good organizational support (perhaps from organizations/
   companies with ulterior motives) and little significant
   involvement in the IETF's technical work (aka "too much time on
   their hands").

   I don't have a strong opinion about what you should say on the
   subject, but I believe not addressing the issue would be a
   mistake.

6.  Security Considerations

   The security considerations of Section 9 of [RFC8713] are still
   applicable.

   In addition, since the term of office for the Chair and the voting
   volunteers is being extended by a year, all will be participants in
   more than one NomCom "session."  It seems obvious that this will make
   it harder to maintain confidentiality.  For example, a participant in
   years _N_ and _N+1_ will have to ensure that they do not discuss
   _N+1_ items with someone who was a participant in _N_ and _N-1_.

   Note, however, that the key goal of this document is to introduce
   greater continuity across NomComs.

7.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

8.  LLC Considerations

   The LLC is requested to provide free registration for the NomCom
   Chair (and only the current Chair) and the voting volunteers for the
   November meeting as that is when most of the candidate interviews are
   done.

9.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC3797]  Eastlake 3rd, D., "Publicly Verifiable Nominations
              Committee (NomCom) Random Selection", RFC 3797,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC3797, June 2004,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3797>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8713]  Kucherawy, M., Ed., Hinden, R., Ed., and J. Livingood,
              Ed., "IAB, IESG, IETF Trust, and IETF LLC Selection,
              Confirmation, and Recall Process: Operation of the IETF
              Nominating and Recall Committees", BCP 10, RFC 8713,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8713, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8713>.

Acknowledgments

   None so far.

Authors' Addresses

   Geoff Huston
   APNIC
   Email: gih@apnic.net


   Rich Salz
   Akamai Technologies
   Email: rsalz@akamai.com
